README.md, before:

# Python Property Search Tool

This software tool is a command line property search that uses the [Datafinity API](https://developer.datafiniti.co/docs/get-started), more specifically the property data. This tool allows the user to search for properties with a variety of search criteria from Datafinity's API including country, cities, property status, province, max price, and number of search results to return. The program will then use the python requests library to query the API and print a list of properties with information including their name, address, date of most recent listing update, city, and max price.


## Requirements

* Knowledge of how to use a command terminal
* A local clone of this repository
* Python installed locally
* Anaconda and Conda installed locally


## Usage
### Conda Environment Setup

Creating the Conda Environment:
1. Clone this repository into a directory of your choosing
2. Verify you have [conda installed](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html): open a terminal and run `conda --version`. If a version number is returned, you have conda or miniconda installed.
3. Path to where you cloned the repository in the terminal of your choosing
4. Run the command `conda env create -f environment.yml` to create a new environment with the necessary libraries
5. Accept the creation and allow the dependencies to be installed
6. Activate the new environment with `conda activate JG-ETL` and have fun! 

**Other Conda Notes:**
- Use `conda --version` to check the version of conda
- Use `conda env list` to see your current conda environments
- Use `conda remove -n JG-ETL --all` to remove the environment
- Use `conda env update -f environment.yml` to update the environment after any changes to the environment.yml file

### Using the Tool:

When the python script is run, the user will be given a choice between using the interactive menu to create their own search or to use the current hardcoded query that is already present in the code.

Steps to Run:  
1. Open a terminal
2. Verify you have [python installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/): run `python --version`. If a version number is returned, you have python installed.
3. Path to where this repository is cloned
4. Create/Update the conda environment with the steps above
5. Run `python propertySearch.py`
6. Read the prompts and respond in the terminal

Commit message:

users need to add their own Datafinity API key to propertySearch.py in order to use the tool, otherwise they will be unauthorized

README.md, after:

# Python Property Search Tool

This software tool is a command line property search that uses the [Datafinity API](https://developer.datafiniti.co/docs/get-started), more specifically the property data. This tool allows the user to search for properties with a variety of search criteria from Datafinity's API including country, cities, property status, province, max price, and number of search results to return. The program will then use the python requests library to query the API and print a list of properties with information including their name, address, date of most recent listing update, city, and max price.


## Requirements

* Knowledge of how to use a command terminal
* A local clone of this repository
* Python installed locally
* Anaconda and Conda installed locally


## Usage
### Conda Environment Setup

Creating the Conda Environment:
1. Clone this repository into a directory of your choosing
2. Verify you have [conda installed](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html): open a terminal and run `conda --version`. If a version number is returned, you have conda or miniconda installed.
3. Path to where you cloned the repository in the terminal of your choosing
4. Run the command `conda env create -f environment.yml` to create a new environment with the necessary libraries
5. Accept the creation and allow the dependencies to be installed
6. Activate the new environment with `conda activate JG-ETL` and have fun! 

**Other Conda Notes:**
- Use `conda --version` to check the version of conda
- Use `conda env list` to see your current conda environments
- Use `conda remove -n JG-ETL --all` to remove the environment
- Use `conda env update -f environment.yml` to update the environment after any changes to the environment.yml file

### Using the Tool:

**Note:** Before using the tool, you will need to update `propertySearch.py` to include your own Datafinity API key. A new API key can be obtained by creating an account on [Datafinity's website](https://www.datafiniti.co/).  
  
When the python script is run, the user will be given a choice between using the interactive menu to create their own search or to use the current hardcoded query that is already present in the code.

Steps to Run:  
1. Open a terminal
2. Verify you have [python installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/): run `python --version`. If a version number is returned, you have python installed.
3. Path to where this repository is cloned
4. Create/Update the conda environment with the steps above
5. Run `python propertySearch.py`
6. Read the prompts and respond in the terminal
